---
layout: "post"
title: "Bugs"
categories: software
---

I've been programming since the 90's, so I can tell you most software is an elephant with legs made of chopsticks - an
abomination of the art. My curse is that when stuff doesn't work, I notice it. And that makes me even more
disappointed in our current state.
<!--more-->

### Internal server error... Your request failed... Loading forever... Broken edge cases...

You probably encounter anywhere from 100 to 1000 bugs per day not even realizing it because certain bugs are just so
common that we identify them so fast, we react, and don't even think. Such is life!

I recently noticed that my washing machine takes a long time to boot up. It's a computer, so it has to boot up, but it's
supposed to have a little microprocessor in it that handles the operation of the various washing machine parts. The
problem is that it's easier to import some overkill embedded Operating System just so it can play a monophonic tune to a
buzzer speaker rather than to write a loop that reads an address in memory and writes it to the sound output registers.

On my fridge, when I press the button to change from ice to water, it dispenses ice if I
press my cup to the sensor too fast before it finishes playing a chime. You put code between the button and the motor,
and you have a bug.

Don't get me started on the cloud... Instead of my phone communicating directly with the thermostat, it connects to a
server 1000 miles away, which relays commands over the internet to a device 10 feet away from my phone.

My Tesla has a screen, and I think that screen subtracts from the car more than it adds.

If aliens saw our code, they would laugh. It's a disgrace. But that's because we are still only learning the basics. We
are constantly writing and rewriting the same libraries over and over again, and this causes constant regressions that
we must deal with, and it happens everywhere code can be found.

### But you know where everything is good in the world?

There is one aspect within Computer Science where everything behaved correctly; it's the chips. You see unlike Software
Development, which is in constant disarray, computer chips are made by geniuses.

### The barrier to entry ensures actual talent

Real life wizards are zapping a rock with lightning in order to trick it into thinking. If it was too easy to make a
chip, then we would have a lot of bad chips. But because it's so hard, we only have good chips.

But wait, there have been many mis-steps in the past. The Pentium, Spectre, Meltdown and bugs, and Intel's failures in
manufacturing.

### The problem with barriers

Over time, barriers get lower. They always do, if a product worth working on, the engineers produce tools as a
byproduct, to assist them in making it easier for themselves. This is a natural for geniuses. It makes sense to make it
easier for yourself. Furthermore the tools are so good, that they can be used by others, and this is how the barriers
lower as time passes.